Clarify key values in upsert along navigation properties (#1924)
oasis-tcs/odata-specs: odata-protocol/11.4 Data Modification.md

request body. The service MUST fail if unable to persist all property
values specified in the request.

> Non-insertable properties, as well as dependent properties that are tied to
> non-key properties of the principal entity, SHOULD be omitted from the request body.

Reviewer: What does "tied to" mean? This here?
```suggestion
Non-insertable properties, as well as properties that depend on 
non-key properties of the principal entity, SHOULD be omitted from the request body.
```

And why only non-key properties? If the key contains a `Country`, is the `CountryName` such a dependent property? Or is it simply a non-insertable property?

Can't we simply say
> Non-insertable properties SHOULD be omitted from the request body.

Because the category of non-insertable properties is already very broad (see below).

Author: Providing "foreign-key" values that identify an existing entity establishes a link.

We had corresponding text for updating a link by updating the foreign-key properties, and I've added text for creating a link via foreign-key values.

Reviewer: Do you mean denormalized properties? I wouldn't have guessed that from the description. Perhaps
> non-key properties of related entities that appear redundantly in the principal entity

> non-key properties of the principal entity, SHOULD be omitted from the request body.

Reviewer: I think I have understood it now. "Tied to" means there exists a referential constraint.
```suggestion
Non-insertable properties, as well as dependent properties with a referential constraint whose principal property lies outside the key, SHOULD be omitted from the request body.
```

> If provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If they are provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request.
```

Non-insertable properties include (and are not limited to)
- properties annotated with the term
[`Core.Computed`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.md#Computed), see [OData-VocCore](#ODataVocCore),
- properties listed as `NonInsertableProperties` of term [`Capabilities.InsertRestrictions`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.md#InsertRestrictions), see [OData-VocCap](#ODataVocCap),
- properties annotated with term
[`Core.Permissions`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.md#Permissions), see [OData-VocCore](#ODataVocCore), where the annotation value does not have the `Write` flag.

Services MUST return an error if the request body contains a value for a

> property marked as insertable that cannot currently be inserted by the

Reviewer: marked as insertable = listed as `NonInsertableProperties`?

Reviewer: Then I suggest
```suggestion
such a property that cannot currently be inserted by the
```
"marked as insertable" sounds like a new (undefined) term

Author: Actually it would be "any property except such a property"

Reviewer: You are right, I updated my suggestion.

request body. The service MUST fail if unable to persist all property
values specified in the request.

Non-insertable properties SHOULD be omitted from the request body.

> If they are provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request.

Author: Non-breaking alternative:
```suggestion
If they are provided, services MUST ignore the value in the request body.
```

Reviewer 2: Note: if we keep the fail part, we should qualify it with the service can only fail if the provided values do not match the service determined values.

> If they are provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request.

Author: Second alternative:
```suggestion
If they are provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request if the provided values do not match the service-determined values.
```

> If they are provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request if the provided values do not match the service-determined values.

Author: Non-breaking alternative:
```suggestion
If they are provided, services MUST ignore the value in the request body.
```

Non-insertable properties include (and are not limited to)

> - dependent properties that are tied to
> non-key properties of the principal entity through a referential constraint (informally: "denormalized" properties),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dependent properties with a referential constraint whose principal property lies outside the entity key (informally: "denormalized" properties),
```

Reviewer: Then keep it here and append the following sentence to the first paragraph in [OData-CSDL, section 8.5]:
> We say that the dependent property and the principal property are _tied to_ each other.

And link the words "referential constraint" to that section.

The term "tied to" also appears in [OData-CSDL, section 8.6].

a referential constraint on the dependent entity updates the dependent
property.

Non-updatable properties, as well as dependent properties that are tied to

> non-key properties of the principal entity, SHOULD be omitted from the request body.

Reviewer: Similar to my comment above.

If provided, services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request.

Non-updatable properties include (and are not limited to)
- key properties,
- properties annotated with the terms
[`Core.Computed`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.md#Computed) or [`Core.Immutable`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.md#Immutable), see [OData-VocCore](#ODataVocCore),
- properties listed as `NonUpdatableProperties` of term [`Capabilities.UpdateRestrictions`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.md#UpdateRestrictions), see [OData-VocCap](#ODataVocCap),
- properties annotated with term
[`Core.Permissions`](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/main/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.md#Permissions), see [OData-VocCore](#ODataVocCore), where the annotation value does not have the `Write` flag.

Services MUST return an error if the request body contains a new value for a

> property marked as updatable that cannot currently be changed by the

Reviewer: marked as updatable = listed as `NonUpdatableProperties`?

term `Capabilities.UpdateRestrictions` (nested property `Upsertable`
with value `true`) defined in [OData-VocCap](#ODataVocCap).

Key and other non-updatable properties, as well as dependent properties
that are not tied to key properties of the principal entity, MUST be

> ignored by the service in processing the Upsert request.

Author: The non-updatable etc. part is already covered in the sections on insert and update, and improvements to those sections are proposed in #1968

> If key property values are provided in the request URL and the request body with different values,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If key properties are provided in the request URL and the request body with different values,
```

term `Capabilities.UpdateRestrictions` (nested property `Upsertable`
with value `true`) defined in [OData-VocCap](#ODataVocCap).

> Key properties whose value is provided in the request URL SHOULD be omitted from the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key property whose value is provided in the request URL SHOULD be omitted from the request body.
```

term `Capabilities.UpdateRestrictions` (nested property `Upsertable`
with value `true`) defined in [OData-VocCap](#ODataVocCap).

> A key property whose value is provided in the request URL SHOULD be omitted from the request body.
> If key property values are provided in the request URL and the request body with different values,
> services MUST either ignore the value in the request body or fail the request.

Author: ```suggestion
A key property whose value is provided in the request URL SHOULD be omitted from the request body.
If key property values are provided in the request URL and the request body with different values, the service MUST either fail the request or ignore the value in the request body.
```
